The Capstone Project (Energy Source Impact Assessment Tool) is meant to be used as a convenient way to visualize energy source and price changes over time, as well as estimate what future energy costs may be.

Problem Statement: As we change the methods of powering our everyday lives, we should strive to understand the impacts these changes will have on our bills. Transitioning away from fossil fuels is essential to ensuring a more sustainable world and mitigating climate change, but at what will that transition cost? Do fossil fuels contribute to higher or lower energy costs? and what role does the nuclear power sector play in determining electricity prices? This project aims to answer these questions through studying the changes in energy sources and prices over time.

Summary: In order to address this problem I gathered data from the US Energy Information Administration on net generation in MWh and price in KWh. After downloading, exploring, and processing the data I was ready to analyze the relationship different energy sources have with price. To do this I performed a multiple regression analysis on the most significant energy sources (for both sources as a % of total net generation and MWh of individual sources) predicting one of three types of price (Residential, Commercial, and Industrial). I utilized the train test split method to divide my dataset into testing and training data for both the independent and dependent variables. The regression analysis is fit on the training data, and then creates a prediction to fill in the gaps. This prediction is then evaluated against the test data to capture how well the model performs. 

The project consists of 4 ipynb files, 3 py files, and 1 folder containing csv files to run.

The 4 ipynb files are separated into stages of project development, 1) is importing and processing Net Generation data, 2) is importing and processing price data, 3) is building the user input and multivariate regression analysis, 4) is the UI
...
